Encryption:

HTTPS:

Data -> AES Encnryption -> Encrypted Data
Why AES Encryption:
Instead of sending data as binary we encrypt and send it over network
Even if Hacker decodes binary data to text he can't see original text wihtout the key.
How to send key from client -> Server for Server to decrypt?
We can't send the key over the network as hacker can get access to key and decrypt the data.

Assymettric Encryption:
Use 2 keys publick key + private key
First client requests saying "I want to send Data" -> Server acks it and sends public key ( server has pub and prv key)
Now CLient has the public key and the key it want's to encrypt the data with so Client encrypt's this data with public key and sends to server
Hacker cannot decrypt this key because decryption can be done only with private key ( 1 key for encypt and 1 key for decrypt)
Now Server used private key to decrypt it and get the key ( so client and server has the same key)
We then use Key to Encyrp/Decrypt Data

Man In the Middle:
The above is not safe since There can be a Man in the Middle attack ( acting as server) who can send his public key 
How can we avoid this ?
We need to ensure that the public key is from the server

Certificate Authority:
It's a third party entity trusted by the browsers such as chrome , safari , etc.

1. Client requests for public key , instead of sending to client server sends it to CA.
2. CA contains: a. who it is for ? who has issued it ? 
                b. Server Public key 
                c. (Encrypt Server publick Key with CA private key/public key) -> Encrypted Server public key
3. Server sends certificate to Client and Client validates it.

Since Certificate authority's private key is crucial we have a chain of certs 
There are many Intermediate Certificate's authority

TLS:( Transport layer security)
There are 4 steps in TLS
1.TCP Hand Shake ( Agreeing protocol versions , Selecting cryptographic algorithms)
2.Certificate Check ( Using Publick key ,private key , ca certs , as disccused above)
3.Key exchange ( actual session key that both client and server have )
4.Data Transmission.

TLS 1.3 used fewer calls over TLS 1.2 
TLS 1.3 used Diffie-Hellman (DHE/ECDHE) for secure key exchanges instead of RSA.
With Diffie–Hellman key exchange, two parties arrive at a common secret key, without passing the common secret key across the public channel 

TSL is advanced version of SSL  both are used for establishing a secure communication channel between client and server.
